We are a group of fully committed students from Thapar University, Patiala and our mandate is to start an NGO whose overall goal will be to spread IT education in India. This will possibly be called Code for India which will run roughly on lines of Code for America, which is a well establised organisation. As per initial study done in this regard, our team has characterised potential subects of our NGO into three broad categories viz students level, villagers level and goverenment. We foresee a huge potential and need in case of building/rebuilding and improving IT interfaces of govenment public interaction across all departments. Our team has decided to start from Education department of punjab.

Currently a unnamed project X, aims to provide free of cost webiste(code) to colleges which will include facilities like Online admission. These webstes will have very easy wizard like backend so that even ametuer IT workers in small city colleges will be able to operate it very easily. All that will be implemented as an open source project, where developers across india would be able to contribute and improve. The backend of the website will have Update facility that will allow colleges to push new software into their serves. The code will follow a licence that will align to the philosophy of free software (introduced by free software foundation), so once taken everthing including code belongs to college. Shortly this will follow a similar project for all government hospitals. The feasibility of such a model is well estalised by various open source project like Debian, wordpress and organisation like Code for America.

This will be the first technical level NGO in India (as per our best knowledge) and we understand the level of professionalism required to work with government but we are extremely committed to our purpose and belief of idea. We want to clarify that we have no business interest and this will be completely on voluntary basis but we do plan have a source of revenue for NGO with some executive to broaden its operations. Our goal is to build an organisation and a platform which will give an oppertunity to coders to contribute in society. 


Thanks

